# PLANNED STORY/MODIFICATIONS

NOTE; THE FOLLOWING TAGS SHOW INTENT FOR IDEA.  
[INTNT] - Intent, meaning that this will ideally be added into the game.  
[PLNNED] - a PLANNED feature included into the game, that was not already described in the latest revision of the story.  
[DMO] - DEMO, meaning that this is an idea not entirely rounded, sure that it would fit into the game or the game scope, or another reason that can be described.  
  

- [INTNT] In the start of the game, the player has moments where they first sign up, but then these phase back to reality and appear as flashbacks for the player. Then upon returning, you come back to the parking lot in front of the main building. Then past these parts you start an average day, then you leave.  
    Upon return, you say to yourself today may be a bit different, but staying positive! But alas, unknown to the player at this moment, this is when the incident will occur. The day goes normal and you pass by a lot of other coworkers talking about the experiment you are partaking in. this is the beginning of the game, and intended to be the main introduction for your place in this facility. Alongside, you are also required to talk to your fellow coworkers about work, as an introduction to the player. This is intended to give the player a good feel for your place in this workspace, what the main character's role is, what their connections are, and interests via chatting with coworkers. Interaction between them may show that the main character is good friends with some, or enemies, brothers in arms, or just normal coworkers that dont know each other too well.  
      
    
- [PLNNED] The chapter based story system. I had forgotten to add this into the initial write, due to it being wayyy later in the game book, or perhaps i have just forgotten about it at the time.  
      
    
- [PLNNED] The contextual story system. The contextual story system is a method of storytelling based off of context and “outlines” used in other pieces of context, mentally assembled into a “line” of context. For example; in law, they use a method of detecting if a story is rehearsed or if it is a real moment. Each story of its own memory is essentially the same, with minor divots in the story to show memory fade as a normal person would experience when recalling a memory. If it lines up to the “base” of the intent of the story, it is true. If it is rehearsed and matches very similarly, that is a automatic red flag when storytelling that what was said was directly taken from the storyline, or a lie written out.  
    This method of storytelling will be used quite often, since all or most characters are dead/corrupted by the incident. And also considering the fact that it has technically been about 7 hours after the initial explosion to the moment where the player starts11| the game, there are going to be notes everywhere.  
    Example of the system; there is a generator, the generator has a note on top of it. The player can or cant read it if they want. Upon reading it, it may contain an inspector's assessment that the generator has faulty cabling, and apon use may fail.  
    When the player tries to start the generator and it does short out, this context of assessment is part where the player now knows what happened.  
    Another example; all around the place are going to be notes from lots of different people. All have different ways of writhing/typing things out so all may differ, but most importantly each note of a different topic should portray all the feelings and current ideas roaming around inside their heads. Maybe it may go along as “what the hell is going on??? The overseer is quite panicked and is also not sure what to do, but he refuses to say what is going on! I heard an explosion earlier, perhaps the fusion boiler? I heard they were going to use it today. Though the overseer did say it was fit for operation, so surely it cant be that!” and more and more notes going around with different context for what they think happened and so fourth.  
      
    
- [DMO] The plot element of the game. I hadn't thought of a plot element, nor did I know, so here is what I think would fit into my vision. I have 2 different ideas, I will list them out here.  
    The rebirth plot element. “An event forces the protagonist to change their ways and often become a better person.”  
    First off, why do I think this is an ideal way to build the story? Well, the main protagonist could be some sort of jackass, asshole, meanie, bully, or some other reason. Then through the story they transform into someone more.  
    Now here is the one i really agree with; The rule of three.  
    The rule of three is a plot element where the protagonist experiences three events, and the third is where the transformation happens.  
    “ The third event in a series of events becomes "the final trigger for something important to happen." This pattern appears in childhood stories such as "[Goldilocks and the Three Bears](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goldilocks_and_the_Three_Bears)", "[Cinderella](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cinderella)", and "[Little Red Riding Hood](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Little_Red_Riding_Hood)".  
    In adult stories, [the Rule of Three](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rule_of_three_\(writing\)) conveys the gradual resolution of a process that leads to transformation. This transformation can be downwards as well as upwards. “  
    This can be used where the protagonist is generally a good guy, but has weaknesses that are revealed in the game. Then with these 3 moments, are slowly healed, then in the third moment, take full transformation as the protagonist takes these to heart.  
      
    
- [DMO] To edit the idea of how the cross-dimensions works, i had a strike where if the dimension the protagonist “copies” the original dimension, and everything in it, at least the part that was reserved.  
    The gamebook describes enemies as controlled puppets, the time storm can take any “puppet” and assert control of it. Aswell, no same person can exist twice, at any given point. So since this cross-dimension is a copy that is technically its own and a reach withing the original, the outside space from the time storm has the template and reserved space, including all the people inside. So then when the dimension is copied, the people are also copies. But cannot be alive 2 at a time. So the template dimension is where everyone is still alive, but in stasis. But also, time cannot continue in both, so the template is held in a state of suspension and the copied dimension is the one that reserves that time. This way, everyone is technically already dead, but still alive.  
      
    
- [DMO] How does the ending of the game work? I rase this question due to how the cross-dimension is set up. Since the “template” is the part of the original dimension, its time is reserved for the copy, and all action henceforth happens in the copy, what happens when the game is over? When the fusion boiler gets disabled and the time storm reverts? Well here are a few things.  
    All movement that happened in the copy will be applied to the template before the storm ends. So say if there was a coffee cup somewhere, then i move it in the copy, then the storm ends. The cup will appear in the spot it was placed in the copy. So per se if someone moves inside, a person, that person will be moved into their new position. Then when the storm ends, they will wake up in that position. Then also due to template-copy stasis, all of these guys will be completely still, but also clinically dead to medical equipment. Then again, they still have a pulse and are breathing. You also, cannot hurt anyone in the copy due to the time storm and the template-copy stasis. 